# Stochastic-Chemical-Kinetics
Numerical modelling of a stochastic chemical reaction network in the form of a Schlogl model. 

## Introduction
The kinetics of a well-mixed chemical composition can  be modelled using stochastic differential equations due to the inherent randomness of the collision of the molucules. If the systems has sufficiently many particles, or in statistical mechanics terminolgy, approaches the thermodynamic limit of infinite molecular populations, the Langevin and Fokker-Planck stochastic differential equations can be used. However, the chemical master equation (CME) is more sultable if the system is composed of small molecular population levels, as is the case in cellular biological systems and biochemical processes such as DNA transcription regulation, translation and protein phosphorylation. In this notebook, we explore methods of solution to the CME, the chemical Fokker-Planck equation (CFPE), and the chemical Langevin equation (CLE). The stochastic Schlogl model is given by a CME with infinitely coupled ordinary differential equations, which can be truncated at some finite number, N, for numerical purposes. In this project, we demonstrate the numerical modelling a Schlogl model as a discrete CME. 

## The Schlogl Model
The Schlogl model, named after its author F. Schlogl, is a chemical reaction network, which in its stochastic form, exhibits bistability. The model was first developed to understand non-equilibrium phase transitions in well-stirred chemical reactions by analyzing the steady states and unstable states with respect to the concentrations of the reacting species. Typically, the concentrations of some of the species is kept constant while the concentration(s) of other species is allowed to change. These species with the variable cencentration are refered to as the dynamic species. The Schlogl model can be deterministic or stochastic depending on the whether the concentration of the dynamic species is allowed to flacuate randomly or in a predictable way. The stochastic Schlogl model is given in the form of a CME as an infinte sum of coupled ordinary differential equations. From the orginal paper Vellela paper, the constants used are as follows: a=1; b=1; k1=3; k2=0.6; k3=0.25; k4=2.95.
